

uv run python -m app.ingestion.cli "files\\agentic-ai-foundations.pdf"

uv run python -m app.retrieval.cli "What is this document about?"

uv run python -m app.rag.cli "What are the three pillars of modern software agents?"

uv run python -m app.rag.cli "What is the capital of Japan?"


1. Basic retrieval questions

These should be easy for your RAG system:

What are the three pillars of modern software agents?
What is the actor model?
Who introduced the actor model?
What is Nwana's definition of a software agent?
What are the six attributes in Nwana's agent typology?
What is the perceive, reason, act cycle?
What is the purpose of the perception module?
What does the cognitive module do?
What is the role of the action module?
What is the purpose of the learning module?


2. Questions that test semantic search

These are better RAG tests because the wording doesn't exactly match the document:

How are software agents different from traditional programs?
Why does agency matter in addition to autonomy?
How do agents make decisions in changing environments?
How can software agents reduce the workload of humans?
Why is asynchronous communication important for agents?
How do agents maintain knowledge from previous experiences?
How does an agent turn a user's intent into an actual action?
Why are LLMs useful as the cognitive core of modern agents?


3. Comparison questions

These are excellent for testing whether your retriever brings together information from different parts of the document.

What is the difference between traditional AI, software agents, and agentic AI?
How do traditional software agents differ from agentic AI?
Compare autonomy, asynchronicity, and agency.
How does traditional symbolic reasoning differ from LLM-based agent reasoning?
What is the difference between short-term and long-term memory in an agent?
How does RAG differ from continued pretraining as a way of extending an agent's knowledge?
How does the actor model relate to modern multi-agent systems?


4. Multi-hop questions 

These are particularly useful for testing your RAG implementation.

The answer requires information from multiple sections:

How did the actor model contribute to the development of modern agentic AI?
How did Nwana's agent typology influence the modern definition of software agents?
How did distributed AI and LLMs eventually converge to create agentic AI?
How does the perceive-reason-act architecture relate to the perception, cognitive, action, and learning modules?
How does RAG provide long-term memory for an LLM-based agent?
Why can agentic AI operate more autonomously than traditional AI systems?
How do memory, planning, and decision-making work together inside an agent?
How did developments from 1959 through 2025 contribute to modern agentic AI?


5. Specific fact-retrieval questions

These are useful for checking whether your embeddings/retrieval are actually finding the right chunks:

What happened in 1959 in the history of software agents?
What did Carl Hewitt introduce in 1973?
What contribution did Victor Lesser make to multi-agent systems?
What did Nwana publish in 1996?
What happened in NLP in 2017?
What happened with ChatGPT in 2022 according to the document?
What LLM developments occurred in 2023?
What enterprise agent platforms are mentioned for 2023–2024?
What is MCP and why is it important?
What did AWS open source in May 2025?


6. Questions your RAG should refuse

This is VERY important for testing your implementation.

Ask questions that are completely outside the document:

What is the capital of France?
Who is the current CEO of Microsoft?
How do I configure an AWS Lambda function?
What is the price of Amazon Bedrock?
Explain quantum computing.
Write a Python program to sort a list.
What is the weather in Chennai today?